


I am realising the multiple vendors issues is not elaborated upon in
the position paper and that it probably needs a section on its own.

This is how I think the vendor will tell marketplace of the addresses
used to receive payments:

When a vendor signs up with a marketplace they provide a list of their
addresses they want to be paid to. The marketplace includes this
address in the checkout button that opens the Chlu wallet with the
"to" address prefilled in.

I realise that the details on how a marketplace should publish the
addresses where a vendor is receiving payments is not addressed in the
paper. By requiring marketplaces to publish addresses of vendors where
they receive payments, we 

There is a field in PoPR called marketplace_vendor_url, but I realised
that this field is only on the github protocol specification and I
missed adding it into the position paper.

However, there is an interesting scenario that is worth discussing. I
describe that in the steps below.

1. Vendor, V, signs up on marketplaces A, B and C.

2. V doesn't tell B and C about any reviews received on A where V acts
as a bad actor right from the outset.

3. Customers on B and C think V is a great vendor, but on A they know
V is a bad actor.

4. V has succeeding in hiding the poor reputation on A from B and
C. But V has not benefitted on A from his good reputation on B and C.

5. For all practical purposes V has different identities on A than
that on B and C.

The scenario is interesting if you think of V as a software engineer
on B and C and as a used hats vendor on A. V might be crap at selling
hats, but that should not affect his reputation on B and C. That is a
valid use case for V to have different reputations in different
domains if they chose to.

The thing to note is that V needs to take the position of separting
his reputations on A right from the start. If V shares even one review
on A with B or C, all of V's reviews will become accessible to B and
C. This is because V's addresses on A will become visible to B and C
through vendor_marketplace_url field in any of V's PoPR generated by
A.

The above means a vendor can't hide his reviews from a marketplace
after the fact that the reviews have started to look bad.
